---
title: February 2018
date: 2018-02-03 21:40:21
tags:
  - life
  - raspberry pi
  - openCV
comments: true
subtitle: A good day
cover_index: ../images/luca-bravo-small.jpg
---

I've found that I spend more time doing things than I do writing about them. Here's a catch up.

## In a Nutshell:

  * Joined a new company. (What up, [Maidbot!](http://maidbot.com))
  * Began building with GraphQL...
  * GoLang
  * Python/openCV
  * Ran a Tough Mudder
  * Kept working at the Farm

## Pertinent Github Links

  * [Magic Mirror](https://github.com/chanceeakin/magic-mirror)
  * [Face Detection!](https://github.com/chanceeakin/chrisify)
  * [My React Boilerplate](https://github.com/chanceeakin/react-build/)

## Updates

It's been crazy, y'all. I've had a lot of fun writing a lot of code, building some cool projects, and living my life.

### Tough Mudder

Last spring, I trained for (and RAN!) my first Tough Mudder. It was...less difficult than I had anticipated. It's amazing what happens when you put in the requisite amount of time. Not even excelling, but showing up every day and doing a little bit more than the minimum. I was able to run a sub three hour tough mudder thanks to that work. Nothing fancy about it. A lot of grinding and running for distance and less than stellar mile splits. Really ugly times, if we're being honest (9-10 minutes...look, it's fine). Luckily, I have the advantage of not being a runner. I'm built for heavy weights, short distances, and power. The Tough Mudder plays into enough of those strengths that I _almost_ didn't mind the ten plus miles involved in running the darn thing. But hey, I did the thing, and sometimes, that's what counts.

In case you were wondering, this is one of those times.

### Magic Mirror

So, aside from my VR experiments, I've spent a fair amount of time tinkering with OpenCV, GoLang, and [Magic Mirror](https://magicmirror.builders/) building. It's a fantastic ecosystem for Node development, including a myriad of customizable modules and a semi-active community. My challenge for myself was to build a face detecting Magic-Mirror, and upon successful detection: load my calendar. I've succeeded in writing most of the software, but I have yet to build the physical mirror! That part's easy, truth be told. Writing a GraphQL server in Go and linking it to a separate Node App...then compiling that code on a Raspberry Pi? That was the real challenge.

I'm _almost_ done with the software, specifically saving and persisting OAuth tokens for given users, as well as linking them with the facial detection training model. That turned out to be *way* harder than I thought it would be. I had originally wanted to build the project take n possible users, but with the current limitations of my software...10 users is the theoretical max value for a given mirror. Not bad, considering I might have 10 people over a year. So, I have manually trained facial recognition models and manually saved OAuth tokens. It's a bit of (read: complete) mess, but it works!

### Grateful

Three years ago, I was destitute and without a plan. On the cusp of finishing a doctorate with no plans afterward. I walked away from a career in the opera world for something--anything--different. Fortunately, I found what I was looking for.

~~At first, my life was a mess.~~ Who am I kidding? My life is consistently a mess, with brief respites of clarity and occasional understanding. (I think we kid ourselves with how well we do, the accomplishments, the accolades we chase. I've began a different sort of chase: namely, the chase of knowledge and study, but that's for another post). Since then, I've changed gears, learned enough about code to be hireable, and have since grown myself in avenues I denied myself in the pursuit of elite singing. No one ever tells you about what happens as you chase pinnacle achievement: the long, tireless hours, the mundane's coexistence with spectacular. It is an odd life. Rather than try to recreate those extremes in my life, I've been in pursuit of balance: life, career, body, and everything in between.

Today, I took a break. I spent all day today learning new technologies, purely because I wanted to learn them. Docker is a fantastic technology, by the way. Once you get past the frustration of trying to get a MySQL container to both seed, persist, and network with other containers, that is. I did that because...I haven't blown off a day on something I wanted to do in months. It's been glorious. Don't know when I'll get another one, so I figured that I would capitalize while I could!

Life continues to fulfil in ways I never expected.

Until next time friends. In the meantime, I'll be tinkering with Go/OpenCV and finding simple joys.
